# CS360: Module Eight Journal
<br>
<br><b>Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?</b>
<br> The app that I developed was an inventory management app. The requirements included a login screen that accepts credentials in the system, a registration page for users to join the system, an place to add or delete or update items, a method to request SMS permission to send users notifications when their inventory is low, and the ability to see a list of all items in the inventory. When it comes to goals, the most important one was to create a functional app that meets all of the requirements expected. The user needs that this app was designed to address were the needs that come with keeping track of multiple items, regardless of whether that is being tracked in a professional or personal capacity.
<br>
<br><b>What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?</b>
<br> Perhaps the most important screen is the screen dedicated to adding, updating, and deleting items. The registration and login screens are also necessary because they allow the users to have a personalized experience within the app where their information will be protected. When I designed the UI, I kept the users in mind by remembering how it feels as an app users to deal with complicated, counter-intuitive apps. My designs were successful in terms of my vision for them because they embodied the lesson I learned about not being hung up on extra features, and how I learned to start with the basics first since these are the things that users downloaded the app for. 
<br>
<br><b>How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?</b>
<br> I began the process of coding my app by creating a checklist of all things I needed to get done. After that, I started to organize notes in the order of the things I had to do, and referred to the textbook or tutorials when I came across a problem that my notes could not help with. After that, I essentially began with the databases I needed and then moved from screen to screen in chronological order. In the future, I would like to continue using checklists because I realized early on that I cannot trust my memory. When I do, I always forget what it was I meant to do. 
<br>
<br><b>How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?</b>
<br> I tested my code by first checking all the errors and warnings that Android Studio flagged for me. Once I felt like the code itself was ready to be tested, I ran it through the phone emulators several times--starting with the phone with the lowest API level and working up to the one with the highest. From there, I tested features by doing things right and wrong to see if it reacts properly (for example, entering existing and nonexistent login credentials to see if the emulator reacts correctly). This process is important because it allows me to understand what the user will be experiencing when they download and use the app. Ultimately, testing revealed that just because Android Studio does not flag a problem does not mean that one does not exist. It takes trying different situations in a test to make sure that there is nothing overlooked.
<br>
<br><b>Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?</b>
<br> Honestly, I had to innovate throughout the entire process. I have never used Android Studio before nor have I created an app. And while I have experience with Java, I have never had to use on drop-and-drag items that connect to one another. There was a lot of experimenting with ideas when I came across problems, and this pretty much filled in some of the gaps that my inexperience left.
<br>
<br><b>In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?</b>
<br> The component that I feel I was successful in demonstrating my knowledge, skills, and experience was the login screen. This was the screen that gave me the most problems before I ran into the problems with listing all items (that I could not solve, unfortunately). The fact that I was able to make it successfully check the database for registered users was a moment of pride for sure.
